>> NARRATOR: Unearthly
inspirations... compelling
ordinary people to perform
extraordinary acts.
>> MICHAEL CREMO: They've
thought it best to use members
of the human population to
communicate their message.
>> NARRATOR: Heavenly
visitations... inspiring
everything from war to peace.
>> DAVID WILCOCK: They could
have imparted that information
to Joan of Arc to give her the
confidence that ultimately led
her military campaign to
victory.
>> NARRATOR: And close
encounters... that leave behind
mysterious clues to our past...
and our future.
>> NICK CISKE: I thought,
"It's not gonna come out to
anything," and then something
that appeared to be a real
message regarding aliens
emerged.
>> NARRATOR: Millions of people
around the world believe we
have been visited in the past
by extraterrestrial beings.
What if it were true?
Did ancient aliens really shape
our history?
And if so, have they been
helped by individuals among us--
chosen to communicate
important messages?
Captioning sponsored by
A&E TELEVISION NETWORKS
>> NARRATOR: Rendlesham Forest.
Suffolk County, England.
80 miles northeast of London.
During the Cold War, more than
12,000 American officers and
enlisted men were stationed at
two Air Force bases on the
forest's northern and southern
edges: RAF Bentwaters and RAF
Woodbridge.
Shortly after midnight on
December 26, 1980, military
radar detected an unidentified
flying object.
And there were civilian reports
of strange, flickering lights
in the sky.
Within minutes, military
policemen, including Staff
Sergeant James Penniston and
Airman First Class John
Burroughs, were sent into the
woods to investigate.
What they encountered was
something the experienced
servicemen had never seen
before.
>> JAMES PENNISTON: By the
dissipating light, I started
seeing a silhouette of a
triangular craft.
It was completely black in
color, except for these
occasional bits of blue and
orange light and yellow light
running through it.
>> JOHN BURROUGHS: There was
blue lights.
There was like an orange spear
above it.
There was a white light that
would come out underneath it,
and then there was like a misty
orange haze.
>> NARRATOR: In his report,
Sergeant Penniston described the
strange craft's dimensions as
roughly six and a half feet tall
with nine-foot sides.
He also noted unusual markings--
raised symbols similar to
Egyptian hieroglyphs.
>> PENNISTON: I was expecting to
find, I don't know, USAF,
something like that.
And what I find is glyphs,
pictorial glyphs, making no
sense at all.
Then I was running my hand over
the side of the craft, it was
very warm to touch.
>> NARRATOR: Upon touching the
craft, the 26-year-old
serviceman claimed he received
a strange and powerful vision.
>> PENNISTON: It's ones and
zeros, and ones and ones, and...
it just makes no sense.
Take my hands off it-- it
stopped.
And then, uh...
then there was a bright flash of
light.
>> BURROUGHS: And then at that
point whatever it was appeared
to go up in the air and take
off and go back towards the
coast.
And we didn't have any more
contact.
>> NARRATOR: Penniston and
Burroughs were ordered by the
deputy base commander to treat
the alleged sighting as if it
had never happened.
Still, after three decades,
James Penniston remains haunted
by his strange vision.
So much so, that he felt
compelled to keep a written
record of it.
A record he kept locked away
for nearly 30 years.
>> PENNISTON: It's like, like
someone was holding a picture
up, okay, of this, zeros
and ones and... I could see it
in my mind's eye, okay?
So I recorded those one
afternoon.
What do they mean? I don't know.
>> MAN: More and more
scientists feel that
contacting...
>> NARRATOR: Could the strange
numbers from James Penniston's
vision be some type of
extraterrestrial code?
If so, Penniston would not be
the first to claim to have
received messages from
otherworldly visitors.
In fact, history is filled with
accounts of people compelled
into action by contact with what
they claim to be an
extraterrestrial, divine or
supernatural being.
Abraham... Mohammed...
and St. Paul are described as
having been inspired by visits
from God.
Moses... Confucius... and the
legendary Cambodian figure
Preah Pisnokar are said to have
met strange visitors who passed
along moral codes and
philosophies.
>> DR. WILLIE DYE: God chose
them because of their integrity,
because of their faith.
Men that were leaders that God
had chosen to put in certain
positions.
People respected those
leaders.
And people knew that they were
people of God.
>> GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: According
to the ancient astronaut
hypothesis, visions are not
divine at all.
They were, in fact, visits by
extraterrestrials where our
ancestors thought it was a
vision, but it never was.
The person didn't quite
comprehend that he or she was
visited by flesh and blood
extraterrestrials.
>> NARRATOR: Perhaps the best
known example of a man receiving
specific instructions from an
extraterrestrial source can be
found in the story of Moses.
According to the biblical book
of "Exodus," Moses first
encountered God in the form of
a burning bush.
It was here that he was given
his mission: to deliver the
Hebrew people out of slavery in
Egypt... and into the Promised
Land.
Later, at Mount Sinai, after he
had safely brought the Jews
into the desert, he was handed
the Ten Commandments as laws
given to man, directly by God.
>> CREMO: Eventually, these
moral codes were the foundation
of a whole worldwide religion.
>> NARRATOR: But to ancient
astronaut theorists, the story
of Moses may be interpreted as
not only a divine, but also an
alien, encounter.
>> TSOUKALOS: According to the
Old Testament, Moses went up on
Mount Sinai to meet with
quote-unquote "God."
And I quote, "And they saw
the God of Israel, and there was
under his feet, as it were, a
paved work of sapphire stone.
And it was like the very heavens
in its radiating clarity."
And my question is, does
something like this exist, or
was it some sort of a
misunderstood metallic ramp?
But it gets even better.
Moses actually describes Earth
seen from outer space.
The quote is, "Thereupon I saw
the whole round of the Earth,
at once the depth of the Earth
and the vast altitudes of the
heavens."
I mean, here he describes Earth
as being round.
At the time, that should've not
been known, according to
mainstream scientists.
>> NARRATOR: Is it possible that
Moses was inspired by a force
not only from the heavens
but from another world?
If so, is it possible that
other divine inspirations have
also had otherworldly origins?
(opera music playing)
>> JONATHAN YOUNG: Puccini said
that his great opera, Madama
Butterfly, was from God-- that
he wrote it down-- but it came
directly from a divine source.
William Blake, whose entire
opus, his writing and painting,
was based on repeated
angelic visitations.
Brahms said that his music came
from something beyond himself.
He was the one who wrote it
down, but he had to give credit
to something beyond himself.
>> NARRATOR: Could great works
of art, music, literature,
and religion really have been
gifts to humanity from
other worlds?
If so, then why weren't these
gifts given directly from
aliens to man, instead of
being communicated through
human intermediaries?
Perhaps an answer-- like many
alien messages-- can be found
in one of the oldest, and
holiest, places on Earth.
>> NARRATOR: If, as ancient
astronaut theorists believe,
extraterrestrial beings have
been contacting us throughout
the centuries, then what are
they trying to tell us?
>> DAVID WILCOCK: It appears,
again and again, that here on
Earth we're dealing with
something that could be
called the hidden directorate--
a directing force of
intelligent beings, who may
even be our progenitors...
and have been working with
humanity ever since we began
evolving on this planet, and
will intervene, at key points,
to try to nudge our development
in a certain direction.
>> TSOUKALOS: Why were some of
our ancestors told to construct
a building...
or to build an ark?
Personally, I think, to ensure
mankind's survival.
There are stories of malevolent
gods, of malevolent
extraterrestrials.
But, by and large, the stories
that we have from ancient
times, the gods were actually
very benevolent.
And these extraterrestrials
have helped us throughout
the millennia to survive
to this day.
(thunder crashes)
>> NARRATOR: One of the oldest
and most widespread stories
of divine or unearthly
intervention in human events
can be found in the many great
flood myths.
>> WILCOCK: There are flood
myths all over the world, not
just in the Bible.
You can find them all
throughout South America.
You can find them in Native
American traditions.
You find them in the Celtic
traditions; the legend of the
Ragnarok; the deluge.
It's in Asia.
Native Africans have
flood myths.
So the story of Noah is not an
isolated event that only
happens in the Bible; it's part
of a bigger story.
>> NARRATOR: The oldest
documented flood myth is the
story of Utnapishtim in the Epic
of Gilgamesh.
The ancient Sumerian tale was
discovered on a series of clay
tablets dating back thousands
of years.
>> WILCOCK: Utnapishtim has a
story which is almost identical
to the story of Noah.
There's only a few
slight differences.
In the Utnapishtim story, the
beings that spoke to him and
warned him about this spoke
through the walls of his house,
and his house then became the
craft that was used to evacuate.
>> NARRATOR: Like Noah,
Utnapishtim collected every type
of animal in anticipation of
the flood.
But could it have really
been possible to collect every
type of animal and fit them all
in a single craft?
Or might the ark have been a
metaphor for another, much more
advanced, and extraterrestrial,
form of transportation device?
>> WILCOCK: The ark in the
Sumerian story is shaped
like a cube.
We now have physicists that are
developing hyperdimensional
physics models in which they're
actually plotting out the
mathematics of how these higher
dimensions are constructed and
what they look like.
It's called a tesseract.
A tesseract is a cube
within a cube.
So it's possible that the cube
that was referred to in the
original Epic of Gilgamesh
could be describing a star gate
portal that used this type of
hyperdimensional geometry as a
way to ensure that Utnapishtim
and all the animals and the
people that he saved wouldn't
be here on Earth at all.
And that's how they were able
to survive the deluge.
>> NARRATOR: Around the world,
many churches, temples and other
holy structures are said to
have been divinely inspired by
angels, gods, and even beings
from other worlds.
But why?
To honor and praise a supreme
being... or might there be
another purpose?
Angkor Wat, Cambodia.
In the 16th century, one of the
first westerners to see this
elaborate temple, Portuguese
monk Antonio de Magdalena,
described it as an
"extraordinary construction as
like no other building
in the world."
With each side measuring nearly
a mile long, Angkor Wat remains
the planet's largest
religious structure.
Although mainstream
archaeologists believe Angkor
Wat was built in the 12th
century, by King Suryavarman II,
as a state temple and capital
city, Cambodian legends
maintain it was built as far
back as 600 BC by Preah
Pisnokar, the offspring of a
commoner father and a mother
who came from the heavens.
When grown, Preah was said to
be abducted up into a flying
palace by a group of
otherworldly beings led by the
god Indra.
>> TSOUKALOS: The message
Preah received was to be a
leader for his people,
and a teacher.
He was taught all these
different things when he was up
at Indra's heaven, this flying
palace up in the sky.
When he came back to Earth,
after this long education,
Preah was basically the chosen
one to teach his people in the
ways of the world and
the universe.
>> NARRATOR: According to the
myths, Preah was also
commissioned to build Angkor
Wat not just as a sanctuary of
peace and healing, but as a
landing zone for the sky beings
who taught him, referred to as
"the glowing ones."
>> TSOUKALOS: The way it is
described, it says that no real
tools were actually used, but
just magical water.
He was able to pour this
magical water onto stone, and
after a while, it would harden
into place.
Magical water?
Come on!
There is no such thing as
magical water.
So my question is: what type of
technology was used?
Preah was able to build this
magnificent city with ease.
That's what the ancient texts
are saying.
>> JASON MARTELL: Angkor Wat was
more than likely built by the
hands of human beings, but the
architectural plan of
sophistication to lay out that
type of complex could not have
been engineered by human beings
alone at that time.
>> NARRATOR: 6,000 miles
northwest of Angkor Wat, a
15th-century French girl also
reportedly received a divine
inspiration-- not to build, but
to lead men in war.
Orléans, France.
In 1429, the city was besieged
by the English during the
Hundred Years War.
The survival of the French
military and government
appeared doomed.
Then, 17-year-old Joan of Arc
traveled to Château-Chinon,
where she persuaded the local
leaders that the Saints Michael,
Catherine and Margaret had
visited her and told her that
her presence in Orléans would
inspire the French army to
break the siege.
>> YOUNG: The Joan of Arc story
is a fabulous tale of a vision
really affecting history in a
practical and concrete way.
France was in bad trouble.
This sensitive soul and very
young girl has the vision of
saints that come to her and
tell her to lead an army and
free a city.
She does so.
She also has some prophecy from
these visitations that she is
able to end the siege of a
major city and make major
contributions to history-- all
because these saints came to
her in a vision.
>> NARRATOR: While Joan served
primarily as a military
figurehead, she also designed
new artillery tactics and
repeatedly outsmarted the more
experienced English commanders.
But did her mysterious visions
actually come from heaven?
Or might the French teenager
have received, as ancient
astronaut theorists suggest, a
type of advanced
extraterrestrial knowledge?
>> WILCOCK: If this is, in fact,
what was happening, then it
would lead one to conclude that
the hidden directorate decided
that the way the world would
turn out if this battle had not
been won in favor of the French
would have been an extremely
negative outcome for humanity.
So Joan of Arc was then
contacted by a luminous
extraterrestrial being that
could have imparted that
information to Joan of Arc to
give her the confidence that
ultimately led her military
campaign to victory.
>> NARRATOR: If extraterrestrial
beings have inspired and
affected human events, then is
it really, as some suggest, to
help improve humanity?
Or could there be another,
perhaps darker and more
sinister, agenda?
>> NARRATOR: Hissarlik.
Northwestern Turkey.
More than 3,000 years ago, this
was the walled city of Troy.
According to Greek mythology,
Troy was the site of a horrific
war between the Trojans and the
Achaeans that was manipulated
by the gods.
>> RICHARD RADER: Thousands upon
thousands of people died, and
the city of Troy is totally
destroyed.
It's hard to imagine when you
read stories like this, of gods
asking people to go to war, do
things they wouldn't want to
do... it's hard to imagine that
they want what's best for us.
>> TSOUKALOS: In my opinion,
extraterrestrials are just
like humans, so, of course,
extraterrestrials also would
take sides.
They would take sides with
certain people and make enemies
with other people.
>> NARRATOR: But when bad things
happen to good people, does it
suggest that alien visitors are
capable of having evil intent?
Or does it simply suggest the
presence of bad aliens, as well
as good ones?
>> RADER: You look back through
these stories-- some of which
have to do with actual
historical events that led to
blood, guts, destruction-- and
you say to yourselves, "Maybe
they don't want what's best
for us.
Maybe their values and concerns
have absolutely nothing to do
with ours."
>> TSOUKALOS: Just like there
are good people and bad people
here on Earth, there is good
and bad extraterrestrials
out there.
Not everything is hunky-dory
Good and evil permeates the
entire universe.
Yin and yang.
There's a balance.
>> REV. MICHAEL CARTER: I'm not
sure it's always that cut
and dry.
In the Book of Exodus, some
translations say an angel
killed all the firstborn
Egyptians.
Some say that "the Lord"-- and I
put that in quotations-- uh,
slaughtered the firstborn
Egyptian, uh, sons.
Hard to reconcile that, at
least in my perspective, that a
benevolent, loving God would
have angels to slaughter
innocents, to slaughter kids.
>> NARRATOR: Half a world away
from the Mediterranean, across
the Atlantic, another massacre
of innocents was said to have
been directed by the gods.
Tenochtitlán, Mexico.
500 years ago, this was the
capital of the Aztec Empire.
During the 15th century AD, the
high priest Tlacaelel claims to
have received a command from the
gods in the form of a dream.
His people were to perform
human sacrifices.
>> PHILIP COPPENS: The Aztecs
are like so many other
civilizations on this planet.
For them, dreams were the
primary means of communication
with the other world.
So interpreting the dreams was
the central thing which the high
priests had to do.
Now, the question is, why did he
do this?
Is this just something
Tlacaelel invented, or is it
really the fact that he had a
dream whereby this new and
brutal regime somehow had to be
imposed upon his people?
>> NARRATOR: But if, as ancient
astronaut theorists maintain,
there are malevolent gods-- or
evil extraterrestrials-- does
that suggest we have something
to fear?
Or might the evil be found not
in the message, but with the
messenger?
>> TSOUKALOS: The possibility
that some messages that were
sent by extraterrestrials
have been received and
misinterpreted is... is fairly
large, because our ancestors
thought that these messages were
sent by godlike beings, by
divine creatures, which they
never were.
>> COPPENS: Now, there's quite
a bit of evidence, even
contemporary, of people
committing murders or about
to commit murders who believe
that either God spoke to them
or something else, and we
actually find in many cases
that this is not the case,
that this is delusion.
>> NARRATOR: In the Bible's
Book of Genesis, God instructs
Abraham to kill his only son,
Isaac.
But was this command really
given by God, or might Abraham
have received multiple messages
from more than one being?
>> COPPENS: Might it actually
be, in origin, a sort of
conversation whereby Abraham
and Isaac are not subjected to
one deity but to more than one
deity giving them contradictory
messages, whereby one being
might be saying, "Kill your
son," and the other being might
be saying, "Don't kill your
son"?
Are we in fact maybe confronted
with two warring civilizations
or two warring tribes?
>> TSOUKALOS: And I really do
think that the gods, the
extraterrestrials, knew 100%
what they were doing.
Just like when we arrive on a
different planet and we
achieve instant godlike status,
we'll use that to our advantage.
We're not gonna say to them,
"Oh, no, no, no, we're like
you."
We'll say, "Yes.
You obey us or else."
And that is exactly what
happened here on Earth 10,000
years ago.
>> NARRATOR: For ancient
astronaut theorists, one fact
is certain: after contact is
established, the fate of the
human messenger is not always a
pleasant one.
After her capture by the
English army, Joan of Arc
burned at the stake as a
heretic.
Saint Paul, who converted to
Christianity after a divine
apparition, was later executed
by the Romans.
And Moses led his people
through the desert for 40
years, but could not enter the
Promised Land himself.
>> DYE: Anytime God choose a
particular person to do a
particular job, you're always
gonna have opposition.
Moses had opposition, you know,
with Pharaoh.
And Paul, of course, was stoned.
Those outside entities, those
forces that came against them,
that was the burden, so to
speak.
>> TSOUKALOS: Some people who
might have received conceivable
messages by extraterrestrials
are at first fearful that they
might have to upend their
lives, or even worse, be called
crazy.
>> NARRATOR: But could the fear
of ridicule or death on the
part of human messengers
explain why there are not more
alien messages that get
transmitted?
Or might many of those who have
experienced extraterrestrial
contacts have closed their eyes
or shut their ears, simply
because the truth may be too
incredible to bear?
>> NARRATOR: Billions of people
around the world consider holy
books like the Bible and the
Koran to be the word of God.
Hundreds of millions of Hindus
view the Mahabharata as a guide
to spiritual enlightenment
handed down by the god, Lord
Krishna himself.
Each of these holy books
contains religious principles
in the form of philosophies,
parables and moral codes.
>> YOUNG: Messages from beyond
our ordinary knowledge seem to
come in a variety of forms: a
visitation, a dream, sometimes
an object, a tablet, a golden
plate, a book.
And so it helps.
A book is an ordinary object we
are familiar with.
And yet, if it's seen as
divinely inspired, we can take
it as more than an ordinary
book.
>> TSOUKALOS: The great
majority of mankind today
regards the Bible, the Torah
and the Koran as the word of
God.
But is it possible that these
books were nothing else but
guiding books of how we should
conduct our lives and that these
moral codes were, in fact, given
to us by extraterrestrials whom
our ancestors thought were gods?
>> CREMO: I don't think the
Mahabharata is a work of
fiction.
It's an actual history.
And the history given in the
Mahabharata includes not only
actions of human beings on
Earth, it also includes actions
of extraterrestrials on other
planets and on this Earth, in
interaction with human beings
here.
>> NARRATOR: Cultures all over
the world believe deities and
other nonhuman entities
frequently communicated through
intermediaries known as
prophets.
In the Koran, it's written that
God has sent over 100,000
prophets throughout history.
Many Native American cultures
believed gods spoke to them
through shamans, much like the
oracles of ancient Greece.
>> YOUNG: An oracle is a
person, but a person in some
divine state, an altered state
of some kind, who is able to
hear the voices of the gods and
then translate it into
accessible human language.
>> NARRATOR: But could the same
phenomenon apply to
Judeo-Christian religious texts?
Might biblical stories of
angels and miracles actually be
misinterpretations of ancient
alien contact or inspiration?
>> YOUNG: The visitations or
apparitions come to give some
gift-- to open the mind, to lead
to a new perception, to lead to
a new possibility-- either a
new artistic take on something
or a new plan for humanity.
Often, we're trapped in some
kind of thinking that needs to
break beyond its known limits,
but we're caught.
We are unable to see, to get a
transcendent perspective.
And that is what the visitation
makes possible.
>> NARRATOR: If that is true,
there might be additional
evidence of alien contact by
examining breakthroughs in the
fields of astronomy,
archaeology and physics.
Or perhaps what is arguably the
most universal of all
languages: mathematics.
Cambridge University, England.
February 1913.
Mathematics professor Godfrey H.
Hardy receives a letter
containing complex mathematical
theorems and formulas from
26-year-old Srinivasa Ramanujan
of India.
The distinguished scholar is
stunned by what he reads.
>> WILCOCK: Hardy looks at
these theorems and says, "My
God, we've never seen anything
like this.
This is mathematics of the
highest order.
It's so convoluted and complex
that nobody could've come up
with this by their imagination;
there has to be something here."
>> NARRATOR: An acknowledged
genius and mathematical prodigy
since childhood, Ramanujan was
devoutly religious, and often
claimed his breakthroughs were
communicated to him in his
dreams by the Hindu goddess
Namagiri.
In the decades since, his
theorems have proved to be
invaluable to those working in
cutting-edge fields like string
theory.
>> WILCOCK: All of the science
that we need to eventually be
able to create portals, star
gate travel, hyperdimensional
access mechanisms, levitation,
teleportation-- it all needs a
mathematical foundation.
And the closest that we have
right now is the Ramaianen
equations that we've been able
to decipher so far, which came
to him directly from this
goddess, who appeared to him in
dreams.
>> NARRATOR: Could Ramanujan
have been telepathically
receiving important information
that might enable humans to
build a portal or star gate to
other dimensions or alien
worlds?
If so, why?
What is the ultimate purpose of
what some believe to be alien
communications?
>> NARRATOR: October 2010.
For nearly 30 years after their
alleged encounter with an
unidentified aircraft in
England's Rendelsham Forest,
retired military airmen James
Penniston and John Burroughs
rarely spoke to each other
about the incident.
Yet both men remained haunted
by their experience.
>> PENNISTON: That was a
life-changing event that
happened out there.
You know, the problem with
life-changing events, they
affect you for your life.
>> BURROUGHS: I want to know
what it was.
I think there's people out there
in our government that have
a better idea and they could
tell us what went on, what
happened to us, but I don't know
how to tell you for sure wh-what
it was and where it came from.
>> NARRATOR: Shortly after his
reported encounter, James
Penniston had felt compelled to
write down the long and complex
numerical sequence of ones and
zeros he claimed he saw
when he touched the spacecraft.
But were they really just
random numbers?
>> PENNISTON: I was getting
this-- not from memory-- but
this mental picture of these
codes written out, this
binary-type code.
So, I tried to suppress it, but
I just had this urge to put
these down.
>> COPPENS: We now realize that
the best way of communicating
with an ancient civilization is
the binary code.
If we know this, then obviously
anybody else in the universe
will know this, as well.
And when we know that our
ancestors, either on their own
or with some help from
strangers, knew this as well,
then we realize that really the
binary code is the best, if not
the only means, of alien
communication.
>> NARRATOR: For three decades,
Penniston kept the mysterious
numerical sequence hidden
between the covers of his Air
Force notebook.
There they remained...
unexamined and undeciphered.
>> PENNISTON: I was scared to
death.
I was sitting there going,
"Okay, there's something
wrong with you, Jim.
You're not right.
You're not thinking straight.
This stuff is so bizarre.
You can't tell anybody this.
They'll take your gun away from
you, they'll kick you out."
All those things were in
jeopardy.
That's what I was thinking
about at that moment.
That if I start telling anybody
exactly what I was thinking,
that would be the end of it.
>> YOUNG: The "refusal of the
call" is probably an
experience all thoughtful
people have-- that is, there is
some project, some task, some
mission.
But we waver, we doubt
ourselves, and don't
immediately respond to our
destiny.
This is not a good thing.
>> NARRATOR: After eventually
leaving the Air Force and
returning to the United
States...
Penniston found he was being
haunted by persistent dreams,
both about his experience in
the forest, and the meaning of
the mysterious numerical
message he received.
>> PENNISTON: What do they
mean?
I don't know.
I've never had them analyzed or
anything like that.
I mean, we were out there doing
our jobs with a situation that
we'd never handled before.
>> NARRATOR: In October 2010,
Penniston entrusted his six
handwritten pages of ones and
zeros to a computer programmer.
He hoped the apparently random
series of numbers could be
translated into something
resembling a readable message.
>> CISKE: Could someone write
out six pages of binary?
Well, probably not.
Um, they would need some help,
or they would have to be some
kind of savant or
super-calculator.
I started transcribing it into
my computer to see what I might
find.
I thought, "It's not gonna come
out to anything."
And then something that
appeared to be a real message
regarding aliens emerged.
>> NARRATOR: To his
astonishment, after plugging
the numbers into a computer, a
fragmentary sentence emerged.
It stated:
"EXPLORATION OF HUMANITY
CONTINUOUS FOR PLANETARY
ADVANCE."
Another portion of the message
revealed what appeared to be
navigational coordinates.
Could this now decoded series
of numbers actually be the
evidence the human race has
been searching for?
Proof that we are not alone?
>> CISKE: "Exploration of
humanity."
Is that for good or for evil?
"Planetary advancement," is
that advancing the human race,
as many have theorized, or is
that the advancement of some
armada coming to conquer Earth?
>> NARRATOR: As for the
navigational coordinates,
amazingly, they point to the
geographic location of a
mysterious sunken island known
in Celtic legend as Hy Brasil.
It was said to be the home of a
civilization thousands of years
ahead of its time.
It is also occasionally
referred to as, "the other
Atlantis."
>> WILCOCK: Hy Brasil was
believed to be a mysterious
land in which the people living
there had a high degree of
civilization.
They used sound technology and
vibrational healing technology.
They were highly ethical,
highly moral people, and they
considered everyone over in
Europe to be barbarians, and
they did not want to mix with
them at all.
They enjoyed the isolation and
the seclusion.
>> NARRATOR: But if the strange
binary message in Penniston's
notebook lists the coordinates
of Hy Brasil, what does it mean?
>> WILCOCK: They may be ancient
astronauts, and the Rendelsham
Forest incident could've been
them coming back, finding a
person who was ready to receive
the message, who had the right
tuning to receive the message...
to let us know that the people
we call the Hy Brazilians are
still out there and they want
us to be ready to accept in the
future some sort of open
congress and communication
between our world and theirs.
>> PENNISTON: There's certain
incidents going out there where
I know where you don't remember
and I don't remember.
But there's certain things
together we don't remember.
>> BURROUGHS: Right, well, even
Ed said that he remembers me
pulling my weapon, and we all
blacked out.
And I don't remember that.
>> NARRATOR: In December 2010,
James Penniston along with John
Burroughs plan to return to
Rendlesham Forest-- and to the
exact same site where they
claim to have encountered a
mysterious craft 30 years
earlier.
>> PENNISTON: We're both
compelled to go back.
Being in that area will cause
us to have total recall of what
happened in December of 1980.
>> BURROUGHS: I can't explain
it, just like I couldn't
explain it the first time, but
I think we're gonna have a
better understanding what we
need to do from there.
>> PENNISTON: Could there be
more?
Um... yeah.
There could be more.
>> NARRATOR: If Penniston and
Burroughs do return to the
English forest where they claim
to have had a close encounter,
what will they find there?
More clues?
Even more messages?
And what of the mysterious
binary code found in
Penniston's notebook?
Does the phrase: "EXPLORATION
OF HUMANITY CONTINUOUS FOR
PLANETARY ADVANCE" and the
strange geographic coordinates
that point to a lost island
really provide evidence that we
are being visited-- and perhaps
studied-- by visitors from
another world?
Could this event really be the
latest in a long line of alien
encounters that stretches back
to antiquity?
To the time of the gods?
If so, are they helping us?
Or are they preparing us to
help them?
Captioning sponsored by
A&E TELEVISION NETWORKS